Choose organic and local foods that are in season. Transporting food from far away, whether by truck, ship, rail or plane, uses fossil fuels for fuel and for cooling to keep foods in transit from spoiling.
Buy foodstuffs in bulk when possible using your own reusable container.
Reduce your food waste by planning meals ahead of time, freezing the excess and reusing leftovers.
Reduce your food waste by planning meals ahead of time, freezing the excess and reusing leftovers.
When you go shopping you should buy less stuff! And buy used or recycled items whenever possible.
Bring your own reusable bag when you shop.
Try to avoid items with excess packaging.
If shopping for appliances, lighting, office equipment or electronics, look for Energy Star products, which are certified to be more energy efficient.
Support and buy from companies that are environmentally responsible and sustainable.
Do an energy audit of your home. This will show how you use or waste energy and help identify ways to be more energy efficient.
Switch lights off when you leave the room and unplug your electronic devices when they are not in use.
Turn your water heater down to 120˚F. This can save about 550 pounds of CO2 a year.
Installing a low-flow showerhead to reduce hot water use can save 350 pounds of CO2. Taking shorter showers helps, too.
Lower your thermostat in winter and raise it in summer. Use less air conditioning in the summer; instead opt for fans, which require less electricity. And check out these other ways to beat the heat without air conditioning.
Sign up to get your electricity from clean energy through your local utility or a certified renewable energy provider. Green-e.org can help you find certified green energy providers.
Drive less. Walk, take public transportation, carpool, rideshare or bike to your destination when possible. This not only reduces CO2 emissions, it also lessens traffic congestion and the idling of engines that accompanies it.
If you must drive, avoid unnecessary braking and acceleration. Some studies found that aggressive driving can result in 40 percent more fuel consumption than consistent, calm driving.
Take care of your car. Keeping your tires properly inflated can increase your fuel efficiency by three percent; and ensuring that your car is properly maintained can increase it by four percent. Remove any extra weight from the car.
Use traffic apps to help avoid getting stuck in traffic jams.
On longer trips, turn on the cruise control, which can save gas.
Use less air conditioning while you drive, even when the weather is hot.
If you fly for work or pleasure, air travel is probably responsible for the largest part of your carbon footprint. Avoid flying if possible; on shorter trips, driving may emit fewer greenhouse gases.
Fly nonstop since landings and takeoffs use more fuel and produce more emissions.
If you can’t avoid flying, offset the carbon emissions of your travel.
